# Active Fire Detection in Landsat-8 Imagery
## Requirements
111
## Download
Start by downloading the full dataset from Google Cloud Drive. If you don't have that much storage space, you can download the sample dataset and set the DOWNLOAD_FULL_DATASET to False before running it.
```shell
python download.py
```
## Unzip
This script will unzip the downloaded files and separete the masks from the image patches. The image patches will be unzipped to `<your-local-repository>/dataset/images/patches` folder, while the masks will be placed in different folders inside `<your-local-repository>/dataset/images/masks`. The masks generated by the mentioned algorithms will be unzipped to `<your-local-repository>/dataset/images/masks/patches`, while the masks produced by their intersection will be unzipped to `<your-local-repository>/dataset/images/masks/intersection`. 
```shell
python unzip.py
```
Similarly, if you downloaded the sample dataset in the first step, set the `DOWNLOAD_FULL_DATASET` to `False` before running it.
## Split
If you decide to train the networks from scratch you will need to separete the samples in three subsets. The samples used for training, test and validation are defined by CSV files inside the <model path>/dataset folder. The images_masks.csv file list all the images and corresponding masks for the approach. The images_train.csv and masks_train.csv files list the files used to train the model, the *_val.csv files hold the files for the validation and the *_test.csv files have the files used in the test phase. For this purpose you can run:
```shell
python split.py
```
This will create the images_masks.csv, theimages_*.csv and the masks_*.csv files. By default the data will be divided in a proportion of 40% for training, 50% for testing and 10% for validation. If you want to change these proportions you need to change the TRAIN_RATIO, TEST_RATIO and VALIDATION_RATIO constants.
